Moving Customize Magento Admin Design to DevDocs (#8351)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/howdoi/admin/customize_admin.md

---
group: how-do-i

> subgroup: admin-customize-page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> title: Customize Magento Admin Design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Customize Magento Admin design
```

Author: I'd have preferred an all capital title but I'll go with it :)

> menu_order: 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

Learn how to customize (add, delete, change) the configuration options available in the Magento Admin. These options define the various aspects of storefront design.

The location of your customizations appears here:

-  Magento Commerce and Open Source 2.1.0 and later: Options set under **CONTENT > Design > Configuration**

## Environment and technologies

> -  Magento Commerce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  {{ site.data.var.ee }}
```

Author: Ah I keep missing that one

> -  Magento Commerce (Cloud)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  {{ site.data.var.ece }}
```

> -  Magento Open Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  {{ site.data.var.ce }}
```

## Prerequisites

-  Magento installed
-  Credentials or access to Magento Admin

## Steps

 {:.bs-callout-info}
The following walk-through uses version 2.1.0 and later.

> In Magento out of the box, when you navigate to **CONTENT > Design > Configuration** in Admin, the first page that opens displays a grid with the available configuration scopes and assigned themes. It looks like following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a default Magento installation, when you navigate to **CONTENT > Design > Configuration** in Admin, the first page that opens displays a grid with the available configuration scopes and assigned themes. It looks like following:
```

![Design Configuration]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/design_conf1.png)

When you click **Edit** in any of the scope records, the page with available design options is displayed. For example, the default set of design options for the store view level is the following:

![Default Store View]({{ site.baseurl }}/common/images/design_conf2.png)

Both the grid and the configuration form are implemented using UI components.

> To change the grid view, you need to [customize the grid](#customize-the-grid) configuration by adding a custom `design_config_listing.xml` to your module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the grid view, you must [customize the grid](#customize-the-grid) configuration by adding a custom `design_config_listing.xml` file to your module.
```

> To change the available design settings you need to [customize the grid](#customize-the-grid) configuration by adding your custom `design_config_form.xml` in your module. If you add a new field, you must also declare it in `di.xml` on how it is processed and saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the available design settings, you must [customize the grid](#customize-the-grid) configuration by adding your custom `design_config_form.xml` file in your module. If you add a new field, you must also declare it in the `di.xml` file on how it is processed and saved.
```

Reviewer: The last bit of this sentence is awkward

> ...you must also declare it in the `di.xml` file on how it is processed and saved.

Is the "... on how it is processed and saved." bit necessary or can you just remove it? If it's necessary, then please rewrite to clarify the relationship between the di.xml file and processing/saving.

Author: I'm only transferring the article - but yet that last bit feels clumsy so I shortened it.

> ## Customize the grid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customize the grid

```

Reviewer: Need spaces before and after headings

Author: Yeah - missed that one :)

The grid containing the configuration scopes is implemented using the [grid UI component]({{page.baseurl}}/ui_comp_guide/components/ui-listing-grid.html).

To customize the grid view, take the following steps:

> 1. In the `<your_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component` directory, add the empty `design_config_listing.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `<your_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component` directory, add the empty `design_config_listing.xml` file.
```

Author: Resolved

1. In the `design_config_listing.xml` file, create an element to which to add your customizations. For example, if you want to rename the column displaying the selected theme, your grid configuration must contain the following:

```xml

> <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

Reviewer: This entire code block must be indented 3 spaces to align properly under the preceding list number.

Author: Resolved

<listing xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Ui:etc/ui_configuration.xsd">
    <columns name="design_config_columns">
        <column name="theme_theme_id">
            <argument name="data" xsi:type="array">
                <item name="config" xsi:type="array">
                    <item name="label" xsi:type="string" translate="true">%New theme column name%</item>
                </item>
            </argument>
        </column>
    </columns>
</listing>
```

> Your `design_config_listing.xml` is merged with the same files from the other modules. So there is no need to copy their content, you only need to define changes. Even if you want to customize the existing entities, you only have to mention those options for which the values are customized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your `design_config_listing.xml` file is merged with the same files from the other modules, so there is no need to copy their contents. You only need to define changes. Even if you want to customize the existing entities, you only need to mention those options for which the values are customized.
```

Author: Resolved

For reference, view the grid configuration files of the Magento modules:

-  `<Magento_Backend_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_listing.xml`
-  `<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_listing.xml`

> If you add a certain field as an additional grid column, you also need to set the field’s `use_in_grid property` in the [field’s meta data](#add-fields-metadata) in `di.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you add a certain field as an additional grid column, you must also set the field’s `use_in_grid` property in the [field’s meta data](#add-fields-metadata) in the `di.xml` file.
```

Author: Resolved

## Customize the design options

> These sections detail how to customize form configuration and field metadata.

Reviewer: This sentence implies that some or all of the following headings are subordinate to this one, but the headings are at the same level (h2). 

Please confirm and update headings to h3 as needed:

```
## Customize the design options
### Customize the form configuration
### Add fields’ metadata
### Accessing the options values in backend models
```

Author: Agreed & resolved

## Customize the form configuration

The design configuration form is implemented using the form UI component.

To customize the form view, take the following steps:

1. Create an empty `design_config_form.xml` file in the `<your_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/` directory.

1. Add content similar to the following:

> ```xml

Reviewer: This entire code block must be indented three spaces to properly align under the preceding list number.

Author: Resolved

            <argument name="data" xsi:type="array">
                <item name="config" xsi:type="array">
                    <item name="label" xsi:type="string" translate="true">%Nested fieldset Label as displayed in UI%</item>
                    <item name="collapsible" xsi:type="boolean">true</item>
                    <!-- Nesting level, the value should correspond to the actual nesting level in the config xml file. For the top field set level = 0 -->
                    <item name="level" xsi:type="number">%level of nesting%</item>
                </item>
            </argument>
            <field name="%field_name%">
                <argument name="data" xsi:type="array">
                    <item name="config" xsi:type="array">
                        <item name="%field_option1%" xsi:type="%option_type%">%value%</item>
                        <item name="%field_option2%" xsi:type="%option_type%">%value%</item>
....
                    </item>
                </argument>
            </field>
        </fieldset>
    </fieldset>
</form>
```

Your custom fields and field sets will be available for all configuration scopes (website, store, and store view).

> Your `design_config_form.xml` is merged with the same files from the other modules. So there is no need to copy their content, you only need to add your customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your `design_config_form.xml` file is merged with the same files from the other modules, so there is no need to copy their contents. You only need to add your customizations.
```

> To customize an existing entity, declare only those options, the values of which are customized, do not copy its entire configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize an existing entity, declare only those options; the values of which are customized. Do not copy its entire configuration.
```

Author: The first scans better for me. But you the boss. 😄

> For example, if you only want to rename the **Other Settings** field set, your form configuration must contain the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to rename the **Other Settings** field set only, your form configuration must contain the following:
```

Author: I have to disagree with this one. "Only" and "want" - verb with adverb - should go together and not be split this way.

Reviewer: Eh, semantics. It's not a big deal and I'm willing to overlook it.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<form xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Ui:etc/ui_configuration.xsd">

    <fieldset name="other_settings">
        <argument name="data" xsi:type="array">
            <item name="config" xsi:type="array">
                <item name="label" xsi:type="string" translate="true">Other Settings</item>

            </item>
        </argument>
    </fieldset>
</form>
```

> To delete an existing field, or field set, in your `design_config_form.xml` use the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an existing field, or field set, in your `design_config_form.xml` file, use the following syntax:
```

```xml
...
    <fieldset name="%fieldset_name%">
        <argument name="data" xsi:type="array">
            <item name="disabled" xsi:type="boolean">true</item>
        </argument>
    </fieldset>
...
```

For reference, view the form configuration files of these Magento modules:

-  `<Magento_Backend_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_form.xml`
-  `<Magento_Catalog_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_form.xml`
-  `<Magento_Email_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_form.xml`
-  `<Magento_Swatches_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_form.xml`
-  `<Magento_Theme_module_dir>/view/adminhtml/ui_component/design_config_form.xml`

> ## Add fields’ metadata

Reviewer: Need spaces before and after headings

If in the design configuration form you add new fields, `<your_module_dir>/etc/di.xml`, you must specify their parent field sets and the path in the database. You can also declare the backend model used for processing the field values. If you do not specify any model, the default `Magento\Framework\App\Config\Value` model is used.

> The field declaration in a `di.xml` looks like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The field declaration in a `di.xml` file looks like the following:
```
